* Single Page Application

SPA is a web application that loads only a single web document, and then update the body content of that single document via JS-API such as Fetch when diff. content is to be shown.

SPA allows user to use website without loding the whole new pages from the server

- Performance Gains
- More dynamic experience

* Angular Introduction

Angular is a open source typescript binding framework which binds the HTML and typescript model.
It is used for making single Page web application as well as mobile application.
used to create “data binding” → Relation bet’n HTML And variable.

→ When the value of the variable changed, the same will be automatically affected in the HTML element.

→ Developer need not write any code for DOM manipulation

→ Developer can fully concentrate on the application logic instead of writing huge code for DOM manipulation.

→ So we can achieve clean seperation between application logic and DOM manipulation.

features:

typescript based
faster performance
Modules : Angular is devided into multiple small part called package.

e.g. : core, common, form, router etc.

Developer can use any of those modules based on the requirement.

Page 3 — Types of compilation in Angular

Types of compilation in angular.
Angular framework support two types of compilation.

Recommended During development.

- Just in time compilation :

JIT Compiler is a compilation techniq used in in angular that compiles the application templates and components during runtime, right in the client’s browser.
JIT compilation happens on-the-fly as the application is launched.

Why and when use JIT

use JIT when you are still building and testing your website
It helps you test faster, fix error easily and experiment with new ideas without waiting.
Instant feedback, Quick development, Easy Debugging, interactive learning.
Disadvantage : performance is slower, because everytime when you run the application, the template will be loaded into browser, it take some time to compile.
Developer need not compile it everytime manualy at cmd. for each modification.

Page 7 — Ahead of Time (AOT) Compilation

Bootstrapping → angular/platform-dynamic browser dynamic package

- Ahead of Time (AOT) compilation.
AOT is a feature of the angular framework that precompiles angular application before they are loaded into the browser.
During AOT process, the application template and component are translated into optimized JS code during the development phase.
It’s like preparing everything in advance so that when people come to the website, it ready to go immediately.

→ Performance is faster, because templates are already compiled.

Disadvantage : The developer need to compile it manually at command prompt for each modification.

This is recommended in production phase only.
Bootstriping is done by @angular/platform-browser.
Faster rendering, small bundle size, security,
AOT compilers can improve performance, security, reliability of your application.
Page 8 — AOT vs JIT / Compiling vs Transpiling

AOT compilation is a technique used by angular to compile angular template into optimized JS code during build process.

In contrast, JIT compilation, which it is the default compilation mode in angular, compiles template at runtime in the user’s browser.

Compiling → Is the general term for taking source code written in one language and transforming into another.
Transpiling → Is a specific term for taking source code written in one language and transforming into another language that has similar level of abstraction.

When you compile c#, your method bodies are transformed by compiler into IL. This can not be called transpiling because this two language are very differ level of abstraction.

When you compile ts, it is transformed by the compiler into JS. They are very similar level of abstraction, so you could called this transpiling.

Page 9 — Bootstrapping in Angular

load index.html
Execute application entry point (main.ts)
Load and execute Root Module (App.module.ts)
Execute the Root comp. (App.component.ts)
Display the template / compo (app.html)

Bootstraping in Angular
Bootstraping refers to the process of initializing and running an angular application.
It involves the loading the root module of the application which mostly is app.module.ts and then compiling and launching the component tree.

→ Angular application started

↓
framework reads main.ts contain Bootstrap code

↓
It loads the specific module (App module)

↓
framework processed the Meta data defined in App module

The main file responsible for Bootstrapping in Angular is main.ts or main.js

Angular isn’t limited to only working in the browser which is why we need to tell angular exactly how we want it to bootstrap itself.

In our case we are running in the browser so we use the platformBrowserDynamic function to bootstrap our application.

Page 10 — Sync and Async Task

Sync and Async task.
When you execute task synchronously, you wait for it to finish before moving on to the next line of code.
When you execute task asynchronously, the program moves to the next line of code before the task finishes.
Callback : One way to program asynchronously is to use callback.

We pass function to an asynchronous function which it call it will call when the task is completed.

Synchronous programming :

Synchronous programming, often known as blocking code execution, follows a sequential execution model.

→ operation waits for the previous one to complete, which can be time-consuming.

leading a bad performance and unresponsiveness.
Asynchronous programming :

It allows many operation to be done at the same time, not waiting for each others result.

Uses callbacks, promises, async/await syntax
Page 11 — Component / Template / Metadata

Component :

Component is a typescript class that contain application data and application logic within the form of event-handler methods, which respond to the user actions.

It basically consist of html file, css file and ts.file
Template

Every component has template. The template contain HTML logic i.e design logic. It describe the views.

Selector is used to identify each component uniquely into the component tree.
Metadata :

The metadata is the additional details about the specific class.

Here component, directives, modules and services are classes. That means all of the component, directives, modules and services contain its own metadata.

Metadata is used to decorate the class so that it configured the expected behaviour of class.

The metadata is represented by decorators.

Page 14 — Modules / Eager Loading

Modules :

Modules are the collection of related component, directives, services, pipes etc.

The module has ngModule decorator with 4 option

The import option is used to import other dependent modules. (BrowserModule is default)
The declaration option is used to define component and directives in the respective module.
The Bootstrap option tells angular which component to bootstrap in the application.
The provider option is used to configure a set of injectable objects that are available in the injector of this module.
